CllgVA Virginia Military Institute Research Laboratories (VMIRL)
540737652 5/19/97 0022


                                                                 
                     NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT 
                                 
                                                                 

Institution:   VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE RESEARCH LABORATORIES(VMIRL)
                LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

The indirect cost rates contained herein are for use on grants,
contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to VMIRL by all
Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance with
the cost principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing
and billing purposes at VMIRL for the periods 1 July 1996 through 30
June 1999 (FY 1997 through FY 1999).
                                                                 

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)
                                                                 

TYPE     FROM      TO     RATE   BASE   APPLICABLE TO        Location
Pred    7/01/96 06/30/97  50.0%   (a)   Organized Research   On-Campus

Pred    7/01/97 06/30/98  47.0%   (a)   Organized Research   On-Campus

Pred    7/01/98 06/30/99  47.0%   (a)   Organized Research   On-Campus

                        DISTRIBUTION BASE

(a)  Direct Salaries and Fringes
                                                                      

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                             
                                                                      

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to the
extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein. 
Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all of the
following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by
the grantee/contractor were included in this indirect cost pool as
finally accepted and that such costs are legal obligations of the
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles; (2)
that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not
claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been
accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the grantee/contractor, which was used as the basis for
acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by
the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time the
agreement was negotiated.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for
costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use
of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government
prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but
are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of
costs from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   PREDETERMINED RATES: This type of rate is considered final and
not subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB
Circular A-21 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, subject to the
limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: 

     The rates set forth in Section I hereof were negotiated in
accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21.  
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided
in such circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is
applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of this section. 
Copies of this document may be provided by either party to other
Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants and
contracts using these rates or otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.








FOR THE UNIVERSITY:                     FOR THE U.S GOVERNMENT:

                                                              
Gary Knick                              DEBORAH K. RAFI
Treasurer                               Contracting Officer


                                                                 
Date                                    Date

        for information concerning this agreement contact:
                     OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
                 DEBORAH K. RAFI OR GIGI FORDHAM
                      INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
                      800 N. QUINCY STREET
                       ARLINGTON, VA  22217
                    PHONE: (703) 696-5641/8559