CllgCO University of Denver 840404231 04/17/96 0005


                                                                 
                     NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT 
           INDIRECT COST, FRINGE BENEFIT, AND LAB RATES

                                                                 

Institution:    UNIVERSITY OF DENVER
                DENVER, COLORADO  80208                       

The indirect cost, fringe benefit, and lab rates contained herein are
for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded
to the University of Denver (DU) by all Federal Agencies of the United
States of America, in accordance with the cost principles mandated by
the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21, and OMB
Circular A-88.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and
billing purposes at DU for the periods indicated under section I
below. This rate agreement supersedes the previous unilateral rate
determination for FY 1996.

                                                                 

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED) AND FIXED AND
CARRY FORWARD PROVISIONS (FIXED)
                                                                 

TYPE     FROM      TO     RATE   BASE   APPLICABLE FUNCTION

                      Indirect Cost Rates
                                
Pred     7/1/95  6/30/97    45%   (a)      On-Campus Organized                                         Academic Research (1)/(2) 

Pred     7/1/95  6/30/97    37%   (a)      Other Sponsored Activities                                       (1)/(2)  

Pred     7/1/95  6/30/97    63%   (a)      Sponsored Instruction (1)/(2) 

Fixed    7/1/95  6/30/96    45%   (a)      DRI* On Campus Organized                                    Research (1)
      
Fixed    7/1/95  6/30/96    50%   (a)    DRI On Campus Organized                                       Research (2)



TYPE     FROM      TO     RATE   BASE   APPLICABLE FUNCTION
                       Fringe Benefit Rate
                                
Fixed    7/1/95   6/30/96   25%    (b)     All Programs

                         DRI Lab Rates

Fixed    7/1/95  6/30/96  $10.00   (c)     ESL and CDL 

*Denver Research Institute

                        DISTRIBUTION BASE

      (a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB
Circular A-21, consisting of salaries and wages, fringe benefits,
materials and supplies, services, travel and subgrants and
subcontracts up to the first $25,000 each (regardless of the period
covered by the subgrant or subcontract); and excluding equipment
(defined as having a useful life of more than one year and a
acquisition cost of $500 or more per unit), capital expenditures,
charges for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs,
scholarships and fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant
and subcontract in excess of $25,000.

     (b)  Total Salaries and Wages, including holidays, vacations,
sick leave and overtime.

     (c)  Direct Labor Hours

                          APPLICABLE TO

          (1)  Applies to DoD contracts awarded before November 30,
1993, all DoD Grants, and all Non-DoD Instruments.

          (2)  Applies to only DoD contracts awarded on or after
November 30, 1993 in accordance with and under the authority of DFARS
231.303(1).  See Section II, Part F hereof.

______________________________________________________________________

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                             
                                                                      
A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to the
extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein. 
Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all of the
following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by
the grantee/contractor were included in this indirect cost pool as
finally accepted and that such costs are legal obligations of the
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles; (2)
that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not
claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been
accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the grantee/contractor, which was used as the basis for
acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by
the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time the
agreement was negotiated.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for
costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use
of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government
prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but
are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of
costs from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   PREDETERMINED RATES: This type of rate is considered final and
not subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB
Circular A-21 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, subject to the
limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.   FIXED RATES AND CARRY FORWARD PROVISIONS:

     1.   This type of rate is considered final and not subject to
adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21 and
the Federal Acquisition Regulation, subject to the limitations
contained in Part A of this section; except that the difference
between the estimated costs and the actual costs of the period covered
by the rate is carried forward as an adjustment to the rate
computation of a subsequent period as discussed below.

     2.   The rates contained in this agreement are based on estimates
of the costs for FY 1996.  When actual costs for this period are
determined, adjustment(s) will be applied to the next subsequent rate
negotiation to compensate for the difference between the estimated FY
1996 costs used to establish the fixed rates and carry-forward
provisions and the negotiated actual FY 1996 costs.

E.  CARRY-FORWARD AMOUNTS: 

    1.  Part of the FY 1991 cumulative carry-forward amounts
established by the Memorandum of Understanding, FY 1991 Final Rates
and Carry-Forward Amounts, dated 3 October 1994, as represented on the
individual component rate sheets, are liquidated herein.  The
following is a summary of the remaining FY 1991 cumulative balance to
be liquidated and the amounts liquidated herein.

                      FY 1991           Liquidated     FY 1991
                      Balance From   in FY 1996/1997   Cumulative 
Applicable To           FY 1993       Rate Agreement     Balance 

Sponsored Instruction     $127,405       $127,405       $      0
DRI                      ($309,467)      $      0      ($309,467) 
Fringe Benefits          ($101,433)     ($ 48,000)     ($ 53,433)
     
     2.  The other sponsored activities rate set forth in Section I of
this agreement is inclusive of an estimated carry-forward adjustment
from FY 1994/1995.  The FY 1994/1995 carry-forward adjustment is an
estimate based upon the institution's proposed actual costs for FY
1994/1995.  After negotiation and finalization of FY 1994/1995 actual
costs, any differences between the estimated carry-forward shown on
the rate agreement sheet for FY 1996/1997 and the actual carry-forward
amount may be included as an adjustment to the next subsequent rate
negotiation.

F.   APPLICATION OF INDIRECT COST RATES TO DoD         CONTRACTS/SUBCONTRACTS: 

     1.  In accordance with DFARS 231.303, no limitation (unless
waived by the institution) may be placed on the reimbursement of
otherwise allowable indirect costs incurred by an institution of
higher education under a DoD contract awarded on or after November 30,
1993, unless the same limitation is applied uniformly to all other
organizations performing similar work.  It has been determined by DoD
that such limitation is not being uniformly applied.  Accordingly, the
rates cited (2) of Section I, as explained under the title "APPLICABLE
TO" (2), do not reflect the application of the 26% limitation on
administrative indirect costs imposed by OMB Circular A-21 where as
(1) does so.

     2.   Signature of this agreement by the authorized representative
of the University of Denver and the Government, acknowledges and
affirms the University's verbal request for waiver of the prohibition
contained in DFARS 231.303(1) and the Government's exercise of its
discretion under DFARS 231.303(2) to waive the prohibition in DFARS
231.303(1) for the indirect cost rates applicable only to organized
academic research sponsored instruction, and other sponsored
activities for FY 1996/1997 only.  The waiver request by the
University of Denver is made to simplify the University's overall
management of DoD cost reimbursements under any DoD contracts for
these functions only.

G.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I
hereof were negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set
forth in OMB Circular A-88.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied
to the extent provided in such circular to grants and contracts to
which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any limitations in
part A of this section.  Copies of this document may be provided by
either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue
or award grants and contracts using these rates or to otherwise
provide such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement and
its terms and conditions.

     
FOR THE UNIVERSITY:                     FOR THE U.S GOVERNMENT:

                             /s/                              /s/
CRAIG WOODY                           ANDREW D. HOLLAND
Vice Chancellor for                   Contracting Officer
Business and Financial Affairs

                                                                 
Date                               Date

        for information concerning this agreement contact:
                     OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
                ANDREW D. HOLLAND OR GIGI FORDHAM
                      INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
                      800 N. QUINCY STREET
                       ARLINGTON, VA  22217
                    PHONE: (703) 696-4842/8559